Remake Convert2RHEL (#1627)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/ref_variables-for-generation-of-conversion-data.adoc

[id="variables-for-generation-of-conversion-data_{context}"]

> = Variables for Generation of Conversion Data

Author: So am I! I'm trying to ask Shweta for her opinion. It may take some time.

> = Variables for Generation of Conversion Data

Reviewer: This can be changed later on if required ;)

> Before you run the Ansible role to generate conversion data, configure values of the following required Ansible variables.

Author: Generates data. The conversion is done in another step.

> {Project} imports most of the required Ansible variables from the `{ansible-namespace}.convert2rhel` role.

Author: Some are not imported probably by mistake, and have to be created manually.
See https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2126168
Not sure how to handle this.

> {Project} imports most of the required Ansible variables from the `{ansible-namespace}.convert2rhel` role.

Author: The ones that ARE imported do not have the asterisk next to them in the tables.

However, some of the required variables are not imported.
These variables are marked with an asterisk * in the table below.
You must create those additional variables manually and assign them to the `{ansible-namespace}.convert2rhel` role.

.Required variables for conversion
[cols="20%,5%,20%",options="header"]
|====
| Name | Type | Intent and value
| `{project-context}_server_url` * | string | URL of your {ProjectServer}
| `{project-context}_username` * | string | Your admin login, such as `admin`

> | `{project-context}_password` * | string | Your admin password

Reviewer 2: Is username/password the only authentication? That feels like a bad UX and possibly very insecure. Foreman has support for API tokens so are they supported?

Author: Yes, only login/pass is supported. I checked with Leos.

| `{project-context}_organization` * | string | Name of your organization

> | `{project-context}_rhel_wait_for_syncs` * | boolean | Must be set to `false`

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't say `must be set`, it can be set to `true` but it kinda doesn't make sense for user to do it

> | `{project-context}_rhel_wait_for_syncs` * | boolean | Wait until repository sync finishes before continuing with data generation. Set to `false`.

Author: This is not a default, this tells the user to set the value to false. I'll rephrase it.

> | `{project-context}_validate_certs` * | boolean | Set to `true` if you wish to enable certificate checks in Ansible. (default: `true`)

Reviewer 2: Why is this marked with an asterisk? From the description above it sounds like it's required but IMHO this shouldn't be required.

Author: What I tried to say with the asterisk was this: If there isn't an asterisk, the user can just edit the variable because it was imported with the role. If there is an asterisk, the user has to create the variable first to configure it, because it wasn't imported with the role. I.e. the asterisk was supposed to say that the user has to use slightly different steps. But if it's confusing then I should probably just leave it out.

Author: Required/optional is given by the table in which the variable is mentioned.

Author: Is it really that confusing? :D

Author: Okay, reword might be a good idea.

I was told that they are not imported due to the way Satellite imports Ansible variables. I have no fraking idea what that means. However, I did create a BZ: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2126168
Not sure if I assigned it to the correct people. Can you pls check and fix it if needed?

> | `{project-context}_convert2rhel_manage_subscription` | boolean | Set to `false` if you already have a manifest on your {ProjectServer}. If you decide to upload a new manifest from disk, the current manifest will be overwritten. (default: `true`)

Author: I wouldn't put it here. The link is mentioned in the top-level steps in the concept module.

| `{project-context}_content_rhel_enable_rhel7` | boolean | Enables {RHEL} 7 repositories. Set to `true` if you intend to convert hosts to {RHEL} 7.

> | `{project-context}_convert2rhel_enable_centos7` * | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to prepare conversion data for CentOS 7. Otherwise must be set to `false`.

Reviewer 2: Why is this required? Feels like you should be able to get this from the host data in Foreman itself.

Author: See above.

| `{project-context}_convert2rhel_enable_oracle7` | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to prepare conversion data for Oracle 7. Otherwise must be set to `false`.
| `{project-context}_content_rhel_enable_rhel8` | boolean | Enables {RHEL} 8 repositories. Set to `true` if you intend to convert hosts to {RHEL} 8.
| `{project-context}_convert2rhel_enable_centos8` * | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to prepare conversion data for CentOS 8. Otherwise must be set to `false`.
| `{project-context}_convert2rhel_enable_oracle8` | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to prepare conversion data for Oracle 8. Otherwise must be set to `false`.
|====

.Optional variables for conversion
[cols="20%,5%,20%",options="header"]
|====
| Name | Type | Intent and value
| `{project-context}_manifest_path` * | string | Path to a manifest to upload from disk, such as `~/manifest.zip`. The path must be set if you upload a new manifest from disk with `{project-context}_convert2rhel_manage_subscription` set to `true`.

> | `{project-context}_content_rhel_rhel8_releasever` * | string | Minor release version, such as `8.4`. (default: latest)

Reviewer 3: When I was trying to the conversion, I had problem with RHEL version,
doing conversion with `latest` repos didn't work, I had to enable `8.5` repos, then it worked.
See https://access.redhat.com/discussions/5676681

So maybe we should encourage users to set `_content_rhel_rhel8_releasever` by default to `8.5`, or atleast mention the issue here.

| `{project-context}_server_url` * | string | URL of your {ProjectServer}, such as `\https://{foreman-example-com}`
| `{project-context}_username` * | string | Your user name
| `{project-context}_password` * | string | Your password
| `{project-context}_organization` * | string | Name of your organization
| `{project-context}_rhel_wait_for_syncs` * | boolean | Set to `false` if you do not want {ProjectServer} to wait until repository sync finishes before continuing with data generation.
| `{project-context}_validate_certs` * | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to enable certificate checks in Ansible. (default: `true`)
| `{project-context}_convert2rhel_manage_subscription` | boolean | Set to `false` if you already have a manifest on your {ProjectServer}.
If you upload a new manifest from disk, the current manifest will be overwritten. (default: `true`)
| `{project-context}_content_rhel_enable_rhel7` | boolean | Enables {RHEL} 7 repositories.
Set to `true` if you intend to convert hosts to {RHEL} 7.
| `{project-context}_convert2rhel_enable_centos7` * | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to prepare conversion data for CentOS 7.
Otherwise, you must set the value to `false`.

> | `{project-context}_convert2rhel_enable_oracle7` | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to prepare conversion data for Oracle 7.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `{project-context}_convert2rhel_enable_oracle7` | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to prepare conversion data for Oracle Linux 7.
```

Otherwise, you must set the value to `false`.
| `{project-context}_content_rhel_enable_rhel8` | boolean | Enables {RHEL} 8 repositories. Set to `true` if you intend to convert hosts to {RHEL} 8.
| `{project-context}_convert2rhel_enable_centos8` * | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to prepare conversion data for CentOS 8.
Otherwise, you must set the value to `false`.

> | `{project-context}_convert2rhel_enable_oracle8` | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to prepare conversion data for Oracle 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `{project-context}_convert2rhel_enable_oracle8` | boolean | Set to `true` if you want to prepare conversion data for Oracle Linux 8.
```

Otherwise, you must set the value to `false`.
|====

.Optional variables for conversion
[cols="20%,5%,20%",options="header"]
|====
| Name | Type | Intent and value
| `{project-context}_manifest_path` * | string | Path to a manifest to upload from disk, such as `~/manifest.zip`.

> The path must be set if you upload a new manifest from disk with `{project-context}_convert2rhel_manage_subscription` set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set this path to `true` if you upload a new manifest from disk with `{project-context}_convert2rhel_manage_subscription`.
```
